Hi everybody and welcome back in the next couple of lectures we're going to look at how to work with
specific parts of a list.
So we've seen how to work through all the elements of a list but did you know that you can also work
with a specific group of items within a list.
Well no you didn't because I haven't explained that to you yet.
And that's what this lecture is all about pite and caused this specific group a slice.
So think of your whole list as a full pizza and we only want to work with part of that list.
So we only want to work with one slice to make a slice.
You specify the index of the first and last elements that you want to work with as with the range function
pite and stopped one item before the last index you specify.
So let's first create a list of names and then print out a specific group.
So here's my list of names.
You can create your own.
I just copied this from an area lecture.
But you can enter in any names that you want.
So let's print out a specific group.
So print and obviously we're working with the list name so print from named now open close square brackets
0 to 2.
And let's see what that gives us.
It gives us Tony and Deirdre.
So as we said stops before the last one so you would expect it to go 0.
Tony 1 Deirdre to send.
But it doesn't.
It stops before the last number that we specified which was to which would be sent in.
So it gives 0 1 what we wanted the middle two names from our list.
Let's have a look at how we would do it at present.
1 to 3.
Don't forget your opening closing brackets
that shouldn't be there and run well error.
Where is that error.
I didn't tell it what list to take it from.
And we're taking it from names.
There we go.
Deirdre and Senate I hope you can understand these names or Irish names Deirdre and so on and so hope
it makes sense to you.
If you want to save yourself some time typing you can leave out the first index in a slice that will
automatically start to slice at the start of your list.
And how does that look.
Print names.
Open close square brackets COLANERI.
What does that give us.
Tony there just sent perfect.
You can do something similar when you want to create a slice that includes the end of a list.
So let's have a look.
Print names.
Open close square brackets to colon and run at 7.
And Carol gives us the last two looks good looks good.
This syntax allows you to output all of the elements from any point in your list to the end regardless
of the length of the list.
So it's very handy if we have a list of millions of users we could use print usernames or print names
to call on clothes square brackets and that would tell us the last two people in the list.
So it doesn't matter how big the list is.
We can get the last two or last five or last 10 we've mentioned previously that a negative index returns
an element a certain distance from the end of a list.
So this means you can output on the slice from the end of a list.
So what if we wanted to output the last tree named to read that a wretched for app where we go print
names
print names opening close square brackets minus tree color and let's see what that gives us.
Lovely last three names that have registered.
So there are some great ways to print out specific items from our lists in the next letter.
We'll look at how we loop through a slice to make things even easier and quicker for yourselves.
Thank you and I'll see you in the next lecture.